Rails Event Manager: using Rails scaffolding feature
=============================================================

In this assignment you'll be introduced to "Rails" a Ruby framework specialized in web applications.

Learning Goals
--------------
After completing this assignment, you will be able to:

* Create and deploy Rails SaaS apps in your development environment, and deploy them to the public cloud
* Learn about the Rails Scaffolding feature.
* Understand how opinionated frameworks, such as Rails, organize files using the Model-View-Controller architectural pattern.
* Understand ActiveRecord and how it helps maintain a Database.
* Create dynamic links using Rails.

Starting the app
-----------------
1. Open Codespaces in main.
2. Run **gem install rails**
3. Run **rails new .** inside this repo. (Note: this will ask you if you would like to replace the .gitignore file, enter Y to accept)
4. Go into the Gemfile and move the gem sqlite3 to the :development group below and create a new group as follows:
```rb
group :development do
  # Other gems are here
  # ...
  
  # move sqlite3 inside this group and remove it from the top
  gem "sqlite3", "~> 1.4"
end

# add this group
group :production do
    gem 'pg'
end
```
5. Run **bundle install --without production** the --without production section will ignore gems in the Gemfile that are under a group that contains production. Some gems ('pg' to be precise) cannot be installed without a proper setup and are only meant to be used in production servers like the one we'll get in Render, so we will ignore it during development.
6. Run **yarn install --check-files**, this installs every javascript dependencies Rails needs.
7. Create a resourse using the scaffold function, the syntax looks like this **rails generate scaffold \<ResourceName> \<attribute1>:\<attributeDataType> \<attribute2>:\<attributeDataType> ... \<attributeN>:\<attributeDataType>** NOTE: Change ```<ResouceName>``` for the name of the resource you want to generate, ```<attribute#>``` for the name of the attribute, and ```<attributeDataType>``` for the data type you want that attribute to be, i.e. string, text, integer, boolean, etc. For example in this project the resource is Events and the attributes are a simple Description (string), the Date (date) of the event, and whether or not the event was Done (bool). This command only sets up the Controller and its basic CRUD actions, Views (Show, Index, New, Edit, etc.), and the Model ruby files; we still need the tables in the database.
8. After generating the resource run **rails db:migrate** this will actually create the SQL tables we need to keep data.
10. Add the following line in your controllers **skip_before_action :verify_authenticity_token unless Rails.env.production?** this will help you test POST/PUT/PATCH/DELETE requests in Codespaces.
11. Add **config.hosts = nil** in config/environments/development.rb.
12. Run the application with the command **rails server --binding 0.0.0.0**

With this you are 80% done, the rest will be done within the files generated by the scaffold. Follow the instructions given in event_manager_instructions.pdf given in the BB link.

Requirements
------------
The goal of this assignment is to create a simple Event list using Rails; the final app should have all the following requirements:

1. Use Rails scaffolding to create a resource "Event" and attributes such as "Description" (string) of the task and whether the task has "Completed" (boolean) or not.
2. Create 3 links on top of the index page named "All Events", "Complete Events", and "Incomplete Events"
  * "All Events" should show all events stored in the database.
  * "Complete Events" should show only events that have the "Done" attribute set to true
  * "Incomplete Events" should show only events that have the "Done" attribute set to false
3. Deploy your app to the cloud using Render, instructions on how to deploy to render were given separately in the submission page of Blackboard, but the gist is:
  * Create a PostgreSQL database in Render.com(This will be the only one you can have for the semester, do not use it if you don't have to)
  * Setup the project to use the pg gem. (Change Gemfile and database.yml files according to the slides "Deploying a Rails App") 
  * Deploy and connect app to Render's Database.
  * Create a couple of Events in the page (1 Done and 1 not Done).
